"time under conscious tension" — actively contracting each muscle used in an exercise, feeling every mind-muscle connection, and maximizing time under this style of tension…is the best way to develop strength within the range you are training. It also significantly prevents pain and injury as, when you are consciously contracting your muscles, the tension in the joints reduce and transfer to the muscles. 
"resistance is inconsequential" Hypothesis — Level of resistance is inconsequential to developing strength or at least very little levels of resistance are sufficient
"turtle movement" — slow or still movement is the best way to achieve prolonged "time under conscious tension". It also significantly prevents pain and injury because painful ranges can be detected earlier before delving into them to a greater extent. This early detection allows you to either avoid the painful range entirely by ending the exercise prematurely, or feeling what muscles you need to tighten to alleviate the pain by taking stress off the joints.
"inefficient movement" — this cue, as opposed to solid principle, helps implement "time under conscious tension" and "turtle movement" by noting to consciously flex as much as possible and move as slowly as possible.
"flexed point-of-contact [POC]" — when placing your bodyweight over your hands or feet (eg a push-up, handstand, balancing on one-leg, etc), you can always shift your weight slightly forward, requiring the activation of flexor muscles (toe/foot/ankle flexors or finger/hand/wrist flexors) in order to stay balanced. This constant activation of flexor muscles to stay balanced prevents unwanted off-balancing in any other direction, something typical when your center of mass is perfectly balanced over your bone structure without the use of a flexed point-of-contact. The unwanted off-balancing, almost like slight twitches, require accurately timed and powerful contractions of different muscles each twitch (since the twitches happen in any direction typically). This usually means you have greater probability of failing (losing balance) as opposed to maintaining a constant, but slight force in one-direction (forward).
"short and long-term consistency" — progress is achieved with doing the same exercise multiple times a week (and done well with trying hard) for multiple consecutive months.
"practice makes perfect" — if you want to get better at a certain exercise, do that exact exercise, not some related movement or progression. The only progressions you should do or the exercise you want to achieve with less resistance
"maintenance is easy, improving is hard" — if you are maintaining with 1x effort, you probably need to put at least 4x effort to improve. Also, know that you will not always need to put 4x, eventually, you will achieve your goal and can dial back the effort to 1x again.
"no improper form/movement, only improper preparation" — the body can move in many ways, with tension on joints or on muscles, everything is ok if your joints and muscles are conditioned and prepared. Don’t dismiss any movement.
"technique/form follows the goal" — if you are want to train certain muscles/ranges, but utilize technique that lessens the exercise’s effect on the muscles/ranges, then you have bad technique/form. 
"be essential" — every exercise should be maximally increasing your chances at achieving your goals. This means utilizing bodyweight compound exercises, exercises that can be done anywhere with zero-minimal set up and hit multiple movements/muscles/ranges. Exercises that only provide marginal gain to your goals, should only be done if you have the time and are that desperate in achieving your goal. In other words, I would expect maintenance level of a non-sport specific, high-performing athlete to take 30-60 minutes a day. I would expect the level of maintenance of a sport specific and overall high-performing athlete to take 60-90 minutes a day. I would expect another 5-10 minutes a day in each area/movement they want to improve in.
"don’t be sore" — Hypothesis: being sore, or its effects, does not increase strength. Strength can be gained without ever being sore. The more sore you are, the less you can train hard towards your goals. You should maximize the time in which you can train hard. Leave all workouts feeling like you can do the entire workout again if you needed to (unless, for psychological strengthening, you occasionally want to kill yourself to exhaustion in the gym)
"inefficient movement allows muscles imbalances" — hypothesis: when you perform inefficient movement, so much tension is taken away from the joints. Perhaps these imbalance injuries only come from imbalances in the joint, not the muscle.
"increasing strength through an increased range of motion" — if your goal is injury prevention or to become a generalized athlete, this is the best way to train. This method trains flexibility and strength concurrently.