I want c
What should I do with my life? What is the purpose of my life? How do I know what to do? How do do I know what makes me happy? How do I become happy?
I know my time being alive is limited. I want to get to the end of my life certain that I spent it well. How do I achieve this?
I have a lot of free time. I can choose between many ways to serve my physiological survival necessities. How do I spend this free time and how do I choose?
Many things give me positive emotions. Sometimes, it feels arbitrary to pursue something based on the idea that it gives me good feelings. I feel the arbitraryness and 
I want to feel good in a non-contradictory way always. KEY
I want to mindfully 
I want to "maximize my state-of-being" for each moment I’m alive. 
I want a state void of impedences and negatives
well-being, quality of life
efficacy, fundamental purpose, growth, Self-Actualization, autonomy, freedom, love, belonging
certainty in what to do, knowing what to do and why
efficacy
autonomy



Physiological Needs
Desires are instances of needs?
Money is a indirect need, 

bonding — engaging in shared feelings, interests, or experiences with someone
I want to see what I’m capable of. Can i get on top of that rock?
I want to demonstrate my competence in an external fashion? I want to see if I can climb the rock because (it is fun trying 
Competence: The need to feel capable, effective, and skillful in achieving desired outcomes. Competence encompasses the desire to overcome challenges, learn new skills, and grow.
competence as the need to feel effective in one’s interactions with the environment and to experience opportunities to exercise and expand one’s capabilities. Competence involves:
Sense of efficacy
Why do I want to listen to classical music? I want to feel emotions, makes me feel good, excited
Why do I want to make friends? I want to bond
Relatedness in SDT is the need to feel connected to, cared for, and significant to others. It emphasizes forming meaningful relationships and feeling a sense of belonging. Key elements of relatedness include:

I think I know exactly what and how long it takes to get X. I’m not certain because I’ve never done it. This makes me want to try. (The “how” seems like a logical requirement before beginning, but the requirement of “uncertainty” is not?)
I did a standing side flip 3 years ago. I can’t do one now. I know what it takes—the exact level of coordination, air awareness, ability to commit, and strength. I will not devote my time to this.
I have never submitted a black belt. I think I know exactly what it takes—the level of strategy, precision of technique, reaction speed, strength. And, I feel like I know how to get there in a reasonable timeframe. I want to devote time to this.
I attempted to document precision of technique, but I stopped many times due to a lack of visible progress (not feeling I am any more competent in an actual match as a result of the work).
I have never composed a piece of music. I know it would take mastery of techniques over particular categories, but I don’t know the breadth of knowledge required to compose or the time it would take to learn master this level of breadth. I also don’t know if knowledge of these techniques would (algorithmically) necessitate a good composition, or if serious intuition is still needed. I don’t want to devote time to this. 
I have never written non-simple animation software. I have never posted YouTube videos before. I did not know what it would take to get an audience or to create successful animations. I assumed I was capable of the software, but didn’t know the time frame. I devoted time to it anyways. The primary motivation was money. But, I followed the wrong product process. Why did I choose this particular way to get money? I thought I would enjoy breaking down classical music
Does complexity or perceived utility play a role? Prior interests? (UFC) More social? Flips and handstand push-ups are not entirely complex, but. Also, flips aren’t as social as other stuff. What about preparedness


Self-Actualization (Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs)
Self-Determination Theory (Deci and Ryan)
Attachment Theory (John Bowlby)
Erich Fromm’s Human Needs Theory
Clayton Alderfer’s ERG Theory
Max-Neef’s Fundamental Human Needs
Basic Psychological Needs Theory (a Sub-Theory of Self-Determination Theory)
Anthony Robbins’ Six Human Needs
Kenrick’s Revised Hierarchy of Needs (Evolutionary Perspective)
Choice Theory (William Glasser):

Why do I enjoy particular things?
Why do I like listening to classical pieces?
Its art. It makes me feel. Its physiological, but i cant do art all day can i? 
Why do I enjoy breaking down classical music? I want to compose. I want to articulate why my taste is good.
I want to compose because I think I could make the perfect piece of music, a music that I think has good taste through and through. I think I could make many pieces like this and even adjust previous pieces I somewhat like to better like them. Why do I want more pieces to listen to? 
Why do I enjoy sending boulders?
Why do I enjoy breaking down jiu jitsu & MMA? I want to flow roll well. I think coaching would be an enjoyable way to make money.


Why do I enjoy adventures up mountains like chapel pond? I want to explore the potentially challenging. I could explore all day with friends. 


Money — tool for convenience

Corollary of Needs Themselves
Productivity — The need to ensure that actions contribute to genuine progress, where awareness of a more effective approach makes inaction or inefficiency feel wrong. This motivates 90% of things, as the human mind constantly recognizes improvement/efficiencies.

Non-Needs
Creation — I never attempt to create something for the sake of creating it. The only reason I attempt to create something is because the thing that I want does not exist. Creation is a tool, not a need.





Step 0 — Enumeration of Relevant Terms, Questions, Problems, Facts
Types of relationships —— Dating, relationship, romantic relationship, marriage, platonic relationship, mentorship, exclusive monogamy, serial monogamy, long-distance, non-monogamous, polyamory, relationship anarchy, domestic partnerships, arranged marriage, cohabitation, domestic partnership, divorces, co-parenting, polyfamilies
Emotional cheating, infidelity, physical cheating
Relevant feelings —— love, jealousy, lust, affection, attachment, nurturing, admiration, possessiveness, loneliness, resentment, belonging, trust, guilt, 
Relevant human needs: Visibility, admiration, trust, cooperation, alignment of values, autonomy, emotional support, contribution (feeling needed, as people say)  
The need of bonding, and other feelings
Questions
What are female-specific benefits, male-specific benefits, and gender-neutral specific benefits? In other words, what about the nature of a female/male/human impacts a relationship differently?
What are the purposes relationships play in our lives? 
What type of relationship to have? What are the different types?
What is the value of monogamy, if any? 
Is a polyamorus romantic relationship possible? 
Are boundaries of a monogamous relations arbitrary? Handshake vs side hug vs hug vs kiss on the cheek greeting that rich people do vs kiss on the cheek normal vs etc? Having a girl that’s a friend, a female coworker that you enjoy talking to, hanging out 1 a month vs 4 times a week, etc?
Can you care, love, have feelings for, have deep conversations with, and/or trust more than 1 female?
Should a typical all-inclusive relationship be subdivided? Aka sex, birthing child, parenting child, co-habitating, doing sports/hobbies with, talking intellectual/academia, cuddling, etc.
Is being friends with a female possible? Does it require certain constraints? 
Difference between male to male relationships vs female to male relationships?
At what point do you start X type of relationship? At what point do you end X type of relationship?
Are relationships, friendships, sex, kids, etc, necessary?
Should only female-specific benefits define relationships with females?
Is the best form of parenting a monogamous cohabitation life-long marriage, what about other forms?
Is the concept of marriage inherently legal and there is no other meaning to it? Or does it represent a different commitment (non-legal) to dating?
 Is the legal aspect of  marriage useful in defining a relationship? Should legalities affect relationships, almost like some kind of contractual agreements enforced by law?
Will a threesome or foursome sexual experience cause problems for a committed relationship? 
Problems
Trust issues when it comes to infidelity or her meta-discussion about the relationship and her views/feelings
Cohabitation disagreements about sleeping time, cleanliness, chores, co-purchases of furniture and household items
Financial disagreements, feeling like you are paying for more than you are getting, freerider’s problem
Notes from previous talk w/ Max
Female-specific Benefits
	◦	sex
	◦	intimacy
	◦	affection
	◦	experiencing femininity
Admiration for the man. 
Feeling protective + bringing out masculinity
	◦	teasing
Male-specific Benefits
Experiencing your own efficacy by acting on the woman and having a strong effect on her physically and emotionally; “making her melt to your touch.” 
Experiencing the admiration of the woman
Non gender-related benefits:
People to hang out with or pursue hobbies
Influence them
Understanding, visibility
Trust
Cooperation
alignment of values
Autonomy
emotional support
contribution (feeling needed, as people say)
Step 1 — Requirements / Initial Cause
The goal here is to understand why human beings need interaction with other human beings? 
Introspect on specific instances of your own purposeful/intentful human interaction, pooling from a diverse set of experiences (all types of relationships and people). For example, introspect on a moment where you wanted to interact with x person. Determine why you wanted to have such an interaction with x person, and whether or not you were trying to fulfill a fundamental need of your mind/psyche. Document the result.

After multiple iterations of the previous exercise, attempt to define the exact manner in which human beings need “interaction”. This will likely result in multiple definitions of concepts, such as the types of fundamental needs that require “interaction/bonding/etc” and the kinds of interaction that fulfill these needs.
Step 2 — TBD

James’ Line of thinking: 

Questions: 
What needs are fulfilled by socializing with other people? 
Related: what would happen if you had a life where you could meet all your non-social needs, but you could not interact with other people? 
Related: why is it so frustrating when people don’t understand you? 
What human needs are fulfilled by another human being submitting to you? 
What need is fulfilled by receiving admiration from another person? (Especially a romantic partner.) 
What need is fulfilled through the act of admiring another person? (Especially a romantic partner.) 
What makes the presence of good people valuable objectively? 
What is the value of someone (especially a girlfriend) acting “cute” for you? 
What is it about man’s nature which makes being understood a value? 
What is it about man’s nature which makes understanding of other people a value? 

Attempted answers to each question: 
Other people can trigger thoughts in your mind that you find interesting/satisfying/helpful which you would not have been able to think of yourself. Example: 
Afd
Example: Say you were in a highschool gov class and during one class period the teacher puts on an episode of the Simpsons. You then complain to another student that this situation is stupid, that you want to learn about government, not just be entertained. The other student says, “what are you talking about? This is great that we don’t have to do any work.” You might get frustrated because this person does not understand what you are talking about, he does not understand the value you have for education. Followup: what value were you hoping to get from this situation which you aren’t getting? 
Adf
Dasf


Reducing this back to primitive facts: Imagine you are in kindergarten and you can interact with all kinds of kids. If you hang around good kids, they will do good things, that is, they will do things that tend to serve your needs. A good kid might help you build a block tower, a bad kid might knock it down. 

Terms which need conceptualizing: 
Cute: 
Submission (especially: in a sexual context) 



Relevant Human Needs--situation they arose in. 
Sex


