The Solution to Repetitive Arguments during Business Meetings
by Colby Anderson
Author’s Note: This is a position paper. You will learn the problem with repetitive arguments, their cause, and the solution to stop them. You will not learn the principles required to implement such a solution yourself, such as you would in a treatise.
~Describing the Problem~
Each person has a slightly different set of ideas, molded by their judgement and life experience. This set of ideas acts as man’s primary weapon, something he can wield when faced with any problem or choice. When men use their weapons together, they can yield better solutions and decisions, but if these different ideas—or the men themselves—conflict with each other, there will be no solutions or decisions, only arguments. Arguments that, if not solved, will unleash a plague upon its contributors, starting with raised tempers that leave people distracted throughout the day, followed by a consistent frustration derived from the lack of progress, and ending with a feeling of hopelessness—a feeling that their can be no progress.
A feeling of hopelessness is the death of all endeavors. Man’s driving force to contribute is the expectation of reward—whether emotional or material. If no expectation of reward exists, there is no driving force to contribute.
If you have been or are in this situation at your present company, consider yourself lucky; repetitive debates in romantic relationships are far worse. If you’ve been in both, you have my sincerest condolences. 
Hopelessness is a response to a lack of knowledge for a particular task. If a man with no medical background is tasked with a heart surgery, he will feel hopeless. The solution is not to evade the feeling or to supply motivation, but rather to supply knowledge. If you want to solve an argument, you must understand what an argument is, what is needed for them to be solved, and then how to go about doing it. As you will see, arguments are not always complicated games of logic; sometimes the simplest way to know something is true…is just to look at it.
~Describing the Nature of Arguing~
When a man attempts to solve a problem, he will deduce new ideas and form/reform concepts using previous knowledge, making new observations when necessary, in order to eventually reach a conclusion. If another man reaches a different conclusion, he must have either had different starting ideas or different reasoning. Perhaps both of their solutions are feasible, but one might be slightly cheaper, slightly more performant, etc. Both men cannot be right, there is always a best solution to a problem.
The primary goal is not to find this error; it is to find the correct conclusion, and more specifically, have everyone adopt the correct conclusion. This creates two fundamental questions. What does it take for a man to realize that a conclusion is correct? And, what does it take for a man to adopt a correct conclusion?
A conclusion is just an idea, and an idea is correct when it correctly describes reality—the world you interact with. Correctness of an idea can be shown in two ways: a proof (that ultimately rests on observation) and an observation. For example, someone could prove, using mathematics, that the earth is a sphere, but they could also travel to space and directly observe this fact.
In order to adopt a correct idea, a man must be willing to hear a proof or do what’s necessary to observe, and finally, he must be willing to remove his incorrect idea in favor of a correct one. Some people will not exhibit this virtuous behavior due to a low self-esteem, and unfortunately, these people exist everywhere. It is impossible to argue with someone who will not argue or will not be persuaded—any effort is futile.
~Intermediate Summary~
Let’s summarize so far. People have different sets of ideas. They can make mistakes when reasoning. When people reach conflicting conclusions, one of the former is the culprit. It has to be the culprit, as two people can’t both have the best answer and a different answer. People must be willing to argue and be persuaded to resolve the conflict. They can resolve the conflict through proof or observation.
~Describing Proof and Its Place~
If a man wants to determine the most profitable product feature, he will use his knowledge of business to reason to a solution; he will not produce and sell multiple versions of the product, directly observing the sales of each to determine the most profitable. In other words, he will attempt to use proof, not observation. This is because proof, no matter how structured or clear it is, allows men to reach new conclusions much quicker than observation. The ancient greeks proved the spherical nature of the Earth far before man could observe it from a spaceship. Likewise, many companies use reason to predict their success before observing it.
If a man uses proof to reach a conclusion, he will also use proof, not observation, to explain that conclusion during a meeting. If his associates disagree, then the exact nature of their disagreement must be understood before he can refute it. However, if their disagreement is a disagreement on some fundamental idea, such as “inflation hurts the individual” or “product success is primarily based on marketing, not its features”, then no reasonable amount of meetings will ever set an end to the argument. People are hesitant, and rightly so, to quickly overturn such fundamental ideas because they provide the foundation for many other ideas that they believe to be true.
Designing a proof, identifying disagreements quickly, and clearly communicating your ideas will serve any man well when he is faced with a disagreement. He will either be more likely to solve the disagreement, or he will more quickly realize that it will take too long to solve. I encourage the reader to look elsewhere for this information, such as a treatise on communication.
If you do not possess the skill to end the disagreement in a few meetings, it is time to move on. If you realize the disagreement is on fundamentals, it is, yet again, time to move on. But, what do you move on to? Are the winners of the argument decided by superiority or majority? No. If one strategy fails to show correctness, it is time to move onto the other: observation.
~Describing Observation and Its Place~
Let’s assume you’ve had multiple arguments about the performance of a certain product, or about the evaluation of certain intangible assets, or about the best price for a transaction fee. Ideally, everyone would use proof to quickly show the correctness of a certain conclusion, but if it fails for the aforementioned reasons, the team has to determine a way to observe the conclusion. 
Perhaps they build two competing lightweight prototypes of a certain product to observe each’s performance. Perhaps they go to interested buyers of the intangible assets and get an appraisal. Perhaps the company does deals in private, offering various transaction fees, and observes what buyers are willing to tolerate. 
Ultimately, trying to observe, instead of prove, a conclusion to a problem is non-trivial. Someone with domain-knowledge will have to ask themselves the following series of questions. If everyone was to agree on the conclusion, what would this mean? What would the company change? How would I measure the results of this change? Now, is there a way to measure or approximately measure the results of this change without actually implementing the change to the fullest extent?
The key is in the phrase “to the fullest extent”. Implementing a change, as if it was decided by the whole company, requires many resources and most importantly, a commitment. You need to find a way to either minimize these resources, make a soft commitment, make no commitment at all, or, better yet, do all of these things. If possible, it will quickly settle arguments and give the team more certainty in their decisions, as observable results are impossible to refute.
Ask yourself the following. Did I ever attempt to find a way to observe the conclusions my team was advocating for? Did I ever create a prototype to test the performance of a product before building the entire product? Did I ever attempt to measure the profit of a particular conclusion before fully committing to that conclusion? In most cases, your answer will be no. 
Using the approach I’ve defined is difficult; it will require innovative business strategies. I will not present you with the principles required to create these business strategies yourself. I only meant to tell you the efficacy and the context of this approach. It is up to you to figure out the rest.
~Final Summary~
Repetitive debates lead to hopelessness, giving contributors no motivation to produce. Proof and observation are the only ways to end these repetitive debates with agreement. Proof requires minimal resources, is always possible, but may not get the job done in a timely manner. Observation requires more upfront resources but guarantees agreement. Proof should be attempted first, followed shortly behind by observation. And, perhaps there is a case to be made about pursuing the two concurrently.